#summary Release Notes for project
#labels Featured



=2012.07.06 (r411)=
Tseting again

<br>


=2012.07.06= (r411)
Testing commits from jenkins

<br>
=2011.7.29 (r151)=

===New:===
  * Import of the Portuguese Web Archive code
  * Added resource files and management scripts

===Change:===
  * Added info to the project configuration files
  * Fix an overwrite with old configuration files and compiling the project.

===Removed:===
  * Deprecated classes and libraries

<br>
=2011.10.11 (r191)=

===New:===
  * Added OpenSearch auto-discovery by browsers (issue 1).
  * Added XML Schema for the PWA namespace.

===Changes:===
  * Updated OpenSearch code to spec 1.1.
  * Added OpenSearch Time extension namespace.
  * Added RFC3339 to opensearch time extension.
  * Remove old and commented code of the opensearch service.
  * OpenSearch bug fixes.
  * Read global parameters for the ranking algorithms instead of those being hard-coded
  * Update the OpenSearch description to allow the OpenSearch time extension for RSS+XML (issue 2).

<br>
=2011.10.13 (r192)=

===Changes:===
  * Fix unescaped ampersand and wrong MIME-type for the OpenSearch RSS

<br>
=2011.10.20 (r199)=

===Changes:===
  * Switch old MCTES logo for the temporary logo of the MEC(Portuguese Ministry of
Science, Technology and Higher Education).

<br>
=2011.12.06 (r207)=

===Changes:===
  * Fixed several problems in the opensearch response that were not respecting 
the specification.
  * PWA xsd, for opensearch, changed.

<br>
=2012.1.2 (r337)=

===New:===
  * New graphical layout
  * Added several new term-based and temporal ranking features (BM25, TFxIDF, PageRank, URLDepth, Age, BoostNewer, BoostOlder, URLSlash, BoostNewerOlder, LuceneSimilarity, MinSpan, LinInlinks, NumberVersions, SPanVersions, TimePointDivergence)
  * Added memcached/membase support for global data sharing between all collections.
  * Added the code of the spellchecker(PwaSpellchecker)

===Changes:===
  * A wrong date was being displayed for search results.
  * Fixed cases where specific types of queries changed the language of the UI.
  * Fixed several issues where the UI language reverted to the default language.
  * Fix XHTML validation errors on several pages.
  * Lucene and Nutch similarity function normalized with an exponential decay.
  * Ranking functions updated in configuration file.
  * Fix integer concatenation of floats division on the scorer.
  * Several bugfixes on ranking features and algorithms.
  * Caches for URL version and flags of new version were removed.
  * Change spellchecker to use Hunspell instead of Aspell.
  * Changes and updated in the footer and sponsors.
  * Force the request encoding before it is read/used.
  * Deprecating taglibs-i18n on the OpenSearch JSP in favor of taglibs-fmt.
  * Fixed missing dependencies.
  * I18n updates and fixes.
  * Several UI fixes.
  * Some code refactoring.
  * other bugfixes .

===Removed:===
  * Removed unused code.
  * Remove non-working wayback and spellchecker configurations.
  * Removed lucene cache. It has not been used.
  * Removed old parameter "search.max.hits" in favor of "max.fulltext.matches.ranked".

<br>
=2012.1.5 (r345)=

===New:===
  * Added the code of the "PwaProcessor" project. This project facilitates the processing of archived files in the ARC format.

===Changes:===
  * The grid of versions on the history page was incorrectly being filled.
  * One of the i18n files wasn't being called.
  * Remove old, uneeded UI files.
  * One of the i18n files wasn't being called.

<br>
=2012.1.10 (r346)=

===Changes:===
  * Fixed a problem where queries with quotes returned zero results.

=2012.3.16 (r399)=

===New:===
  * "PwaLogsMiner" project added. This code is used for processing the access logs
  * Apply TFxIDF and BM25 functions over all index fields.
  * Added a new temporal feature for the ranking algorithm. It uses the number of versions and time span between changed versions.

===Changes:===
  * Changed the threshold for the minimum number of terms that occur only in the anchor field when matching a document.
  * Adding dependencies no longer available on repositories.
  * Updated the Portuguese texts to respect the new Portuguese Ortographic Agreement.
  * Increased the number of matched documents returned by Nutch to 2K.
  * Several bugfixes in the TFxIDF code.
  * Uped the number of anchor terms used by the ranking algorithm.
  * Fixed the project building that failed due to missing libs and classes.
  * Created an in-project maven repository to handle deprecated/old dependencies.
  * Index servers response timeout set to 60 seconds.
  * The memcache timeout set to 5 seconds.
  * Updated information and resources links for project resources in Maven file.
  * Other fixes.

===Removed:===
  * Remove the WERA sub-project. We don't use it and seems deprecated.

<br>
=2012.3.20 (r400)=

===Changes:===
  * Added information for testing

<br>
=2012.3.30 (r401)=

===Changes:===
  * A wrong configuration was presenting the result page as the intro page.